
Using SAC: Introduction
+++++++++++++++++++++++

Overview
--------
SAC (Seismic Analysis Code), previously SAC2000, is a general-purpose 
interactive program designed for the study of sequential signals, 
especially time-series data. Emphasis has been placed on analysis tools used 
by research seismologists in the detailed study of seismic events. Analysis 
capabilities include general arithmetic operations, Fourier transforms, three 
spectral estimation techniques, IIR and FIR filtering, signal stacking, 
decimation, interpolation, correlation, and seismic phase picking. SAC also 
contains an extensive graphics capability. Versions are available for a wide 
variety of computer systems. SAC was developed at Lawrence Livermore National 
Laboratory and is copyrighted by the University of California.  It is 
currently begin developed and maintained by a small group of developers 
working in cooperation with IRIS http://www.iris.edu

This Manual
-----------
This manual contains general information for the new user about what SAC can 
do, how it works, and how to get started. It also contains detailed 
information for the more experienced user on topics such as how to use SAC 
macros, how to read and write SAC data files from C or FORTRAN programs, and 
how the SAC program is structured.

Update Policy
-------------
This manual will be periodically updated to include new descriptions and to 
revise old ones. Please report any errors in this manual to:

sac-help@iris.washington.edu - SAC Help Mailing List

This will help keep it as accurate and current as possible.

Notation
--------
This section describes the notation used in this manual. All of the SAC 
manuals use a similiar notation.

Uppercase/red words (e.g. READ) identify commands or keywords. They must be 
entered as shown, although they may be either uppercase or lowercase.

When showing examples of interaction between the user and SAC, a uppercase 
typewriter style font is used within these examples, with comments about what 
is happening appearing in lowercase and enclose in parentheses.

Repeating an important point made above, you may enter keywords and options in 
either uppercase or lowercase. SAC converts these to uppercase before 
interpreting them. The exceptions to this rule are text appearing within 
single or double quotes and the names of directories and files. The case of 
these items is not changed. They are interpreted literally.

Other Manuals
-------------
Other SAC manuals include:

A Tutorial_ Guide For New Users which explains the basic SAC commands with 
examples for you to try as you read.

Command_Reference_ Manual which contains detailed descriptions of each SAC 
command including purpose, syntax, default values, and examples. This manual 
also contains lists of SAC commands sorted alphabetically and functionally.

Spectral_Estimation_Subprocess_ Manual which describes a subprocess for the 
study of stationary random processes. A subprocess is like a small separate 
program within the main SAC program.

Signal_Stacking_Subprocess_ Manual which describes a subprocess for performing 
signal stacking with delays, traveltimes, and record section plots.

Program Design
--------------

SAC is a fairly portable code written in C.  There are no differences between 
versions on different operaing systems.

 - Linux: 2.0.x and later
 - Mac OS X: 10.3 and later
 - Solaris: Solaris 5.8 and later
 - Windows/Cygwin

SAC handles graphics by including two different graphics devices in the code:

 - X11: Common to all the supported platforms, and

 - SGF: Stands for SAC Graphics File. Each file contains all the information
   needed to generate a single plot.

