SAC 2000 SOFTWARE END-USER LICENSE

IMPORTANT – READ THESE TERMS AND CONDITIONS CAREFULLY BEFORE PROCEEDING.  BY
CHECKING “I AGREE” AND CLICKING “SUBMIT”, YOU ACKNOWLEDGE THAT YOU ARE DULY
AUTHORIZED TO ENTER INTO THIS LICENSE AGREEMENT ON BEHALF OF THE ORGANIZATION
IDENTIFIED IN THE USER LICENSE APPLICATION SUBMITTED TO INCORPORATED RESEARCH
INSTITUTIONS FOR SEISMOLOGY.  YOU FURTHER ACKNOWLEDGE THAT YOU HAVE READ THIS
LICENSE AGREEMENT, YOU UNDERSTAND IT, AND THE ORGANIZATION WILL BE BOUND BY ITS
TERMS.  IF AFTER READING THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THIS LICENSE AGREEMENT YOU
DO NOT CONSENT, YOU SHOULD EXIT THIS PAGE WITHOUT CHECKING “I AGREE” OR CLICKING
“SUBMIT”, IN WHICH CASE YOU WILL NOT BE PROVIDED ACCESS TO THE SEISMIC ANALYSIS
CODE SOFTWARE, SAC 2000 VERSION 100 AND ALL SUBSEQUENT VERSIONS RELEASED THROUGH
IRIS.

1.	IRIS.  (a) Incorporated Research Institutions for Seismology (“IRIS”)
agrees to provide the organization or other applicant identified in the User
License Application (“you”) with access to the Seismic Analysis Code Software,
SAC 2000 Version 100 and all subsequent versions released through IRIS 
(the “Software”), and in  consideration thereof, you agree to all of the terms and conditions set forth in this License Agreement (this “License Agreement”).

(b)	IRIS shall provide you with such user IDs and passwords as may be
necessary for you to access the Software.  During the term of this License
Agreement, IRIS may provide your employees and/or agents with user IDs and
passwords.  You agree that all such user IDs and passwords are the confidential
information of IRIS and shall be maintained in strict confidence, and not
disclosed to third parties without IRIS’ prior written authorization.  IRIS may
grant your employees or agents passwords on condition that they execute an
on-line password use agreement.  You agree that any such on-line password use
agreement will be a valid and binding agreement when executed by such employees
or agents, and you agree to make best efforts to ensure that such employees and
agents comply with the terms of such password use agreements and to notify IRIS
promptly if such an employee or agent terminates his or her employment or
engagement with you.  Your employees and/or agents are authorized to use the
user IDs and passwords  only for accessing the Software for the Licensed Use (as
defined herein) and for no other purpose.  You, at your own expense, shall
obtain, maintain and operate suitable and fully compatible computer equipment,
communication devices, printers and related equipment, consumable items and
software, including Internet connections, required to access and use the
Software.  You shall assume full responsibility including expenses for remote
connectivity necessary for the transmission of data and to access and use the
Software.

2.	GRANT OF LICENSE: IRIS grants to you a non-exclusive, non-transferable
license to the access and utilize the Software, subject to all of the terms and
conditions set forth in this License Agreement, including, without limitation,
the following:

(a)	You may access and use the Software solely in the regular course of your
teaching and/or research solely for the purposes of supporting scientific
research activities (the “Licensed Use”).  This License Agreement does not
convey to you any interest in or right to use the Software, except the limited
right of access and use licensed hereunder, revocable at any time by IRIS in
accordance with the terms of this License Agreement.  No form of remote access
to IRIS’ computer system is permitted, other than as specified herein, and as
authorized by IRIS from time to time in connection with the Licensed Use.

(b)	You agree not to cause or permit any person, including but not limited to
your employees to:  (i) access, copy, modify, rent, lease, sub-license,
distribute, disclose, or use the Software, or any portion thereof, except as
expressly provided in this License Agreement; (ii) permit any third party to
access or use the Software, unless IRIS provides its prior written consent to
such third party access or use.

(c)	You acknowledge and agree that the Software is proprietary to IRIS or its
licensors; that IRIS or its licensors retains all right, title and interest in
and to the Software and all copies, improvements, enhancements, modifications
and derivative works of or based on the Software  (including, without
limitation, any customization of the Software or other software developed by
IRIS for the Licensed Use); that you shall not tamper with, bypass, or alter any
security feature of the Software or of IRIS’s computer system, or attempt to do
so; that you shall take all reasonable steps to ensure that the provisions of
this License Agreement are not violated by any person under your control or in
your service; that title to and ownership of any and all proprietary rights
including, without limitation, all patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade
secrets embodied in the Software and in any complementary computer programs
resident on IRIS’s computer system shall remain with IRIS (or other proprietary
rights owner, if licensed to  IRIS by a third party licensor).  You shall not
delete or alter any proprietary rights notices contained in the Software.

(d)	Notwithstanding the foregoing, you may prepare derivative works based on
the Software, and IRIS shall provide the source code to the Software to you, to
enable you to prepare derivative works based on the Software; provided, that all
derivative works incorporating the Software shall be owned by IRIS, and your use
thereof shall be solely pursuant to the license granted herein.  You acknowledge
and agree that IRIS, may, in its discretion, distribute all such derivative
works of the Software to its other licensees, and that IRIS’s intention in this
regard is to promote scientific research.  You agree to keep IRIS currently
apprised of any derivative works you create based on the Software, and you shall
provide copies of the source code for all such derivative works to IRIS
promptly.

3.	TERMS AND CONDITIONS. IRIS may publish SAC 2000 Terms and Conditions
(“Terms and Conditions”) from time to time and will provide the same to you by
means of written notice, publication on-line in connection with the Software
and/or such other reasonable means that IRIS shall determine.  Notwithstanding
any other provisions of this License Agreement, your continued access of the
Software after written notice, publication on-line in connection with the
Software and/or such other reasonable means that IRIS shall determine, shall
serve as your agreement to abide by the Terms and Conditions, as revised from
time to time, as if they were fully set forth herein.  The Terms and Conditions,
including revisions thereto, shall be deemed to be incorporated into this
License Agreement by this reference and you expressly agree and warrant that
access to and all usage of the Software shall be in compliance with all of the
Terms and Conditions herein.

4.	ENHANCEMENTS. From time to time, IRIS may, in its sole discretion, modify,
enhance or otherwise revise the functional features of the Software and make
such changes available to you at no additional charge, in lieu of the functional
features previously provided.

5.	LIMITED WARRANTY:

THE SOFTWARE IS SUPPLIED "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND. THIS LICENSE AND
THE ASSOCIATED SOFTWARE ARE PROVIDED WITHOUT WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR ANY OTHER WARRANTY, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED. IRIS
MAKES NO REPRESENTATION OR WARRANTY THAT USE OF THE SOFTWARE WILL NOT INFRINGE
ANY COPYRIGHT OR OTHER PROPRIETARY RIGHT. IRIS (1) DOES NOT ASSUME ANY LEGAL
LIABILITY OR RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ACCURACY, COMPLETENESS, OR USEFULNESS OF THE
SOFTWARE; AND (2) DOES NOT WARRANT THAT THE SOFTWARE WILL FUNCTION
UNINTERRUPTED, THAT IT IS ERROR-FREE OR THAT ANY ERRORS WILL BE CORRECTED.

6.	LIMITATION OF LIABILITY:

(a)	You acknowledge that IRIS' obligations and liabilities with respect to
the Software are solely as provided in this License Agreement, and that your use
of the Software is at your own risk and you are responsible for the consequences
of any use of the Software, whether or not such use was consistent with the
license granted hereunder.  IN NO EVENT WILL THE IRIS OR ITS LICENSORS BE LIABLE
FOR ANY INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES OF ANY
KIND OR NATURE, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF PROFITS OR LOSS OF DATA,
FOR ANY REASON WHATSOEVER, WHETHER SUCH LIABILITY IS ASSERTED ON THE BASIS OF
CONTRACT, TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR STRICT LIABILITY), OR OTHERWISE, EVEN IF
IRIS HAS BEEN WARNED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH LOSS OR DAMAGES.

(b)	If at any time an allegation of infringement of any rights of any third
party is made, or in IRIS or IRIS’s opinion is likely to be made, with respect
to the Software, IRIS may, at its option and at its own expense either (i)
obtain for you the right to continue using the Software, (ii) modify or replace
the Software or any portion thereof so as to avoid any such claim of
infringement, or (iii) terminate this License Agreement and refund to you the
development fee paid by you for customization of the Software for your use (if
any).  IRIS’s sole liability to you for damages pursuant to this Section 6(b),
if any, shall not exceed the amount of the license fee paid by you for the
Software subject to any such claim.

(c)	IRIS SHALL NOT BE LIABLE OR RESPONSIBLE FOR ANY LOSS, INJURY, CLAIM,
LIABILITY, DAMAGE OR EXPENSE OF ANY KIND OR NATURE, INCLUDING ATTORNEYS’ FEES,
FOR ANY INTERRUPTION OF SERVICE OR LOSS OF USE OF THE SOFTWARE, FOR ANY LOSS OF
BUSINESS BY YOU, OR FOR ANY OTHER LOSS FROM A CAUSE OR CAUSES WITHIN OR BEYOND
THE CONTROL OF IRIS IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE CAUSED BY, RESULTING FROM OR
IN ANY WAY RELATED DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY, TO THE SOFTWARE LICENSED HEREUNDER,
INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ERRORS, OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE DATA
GENERATED BY THE SOFTWARE.  IF, FOR ANY REASON, BY OPERATION OF LAW OR
OTHERWISE, ANY PORTION OF THE FOREGOING LIMITATION OF LIABILITY SHALL BE VOID,
THEN, IN SUCH EVENT, THE MAXIMUM LIABILITY OF IRIS, IF ANY, SHALL BE LIMITED TO
GENERAL MONEY DAMAGES IN AN AMOUNT NOT TO EXCEED THE TOTAL AMOUNT YOU ACTUALLY
PAID TO IRIS BY LICENSEE (IF ANY) FOR LICENSING THE SOFTWARE DURING AND FOR A
PERIOD OF TIME COMMENCING UPON THE OCCURRENCE OF SUCH ERROR, DEFECT OR FAILURE
AND CEASING UPON THE DISCOVERY OF SUCH, IN WHOLE OR IN PART, PROVIDED, HOWEVER,
THAT IN NO EVENT SHALL SUCH PERIOD OF TIME EXCEED THE SIX (6) MONTH PERIOD
IMMEDIATELY PRECEDING THE DATE ON WHICH SUCH ERROR, DEFECT OR FAILURE IS FIRST
DISCOVERED.

7.	INDEMNIFICATION:

Neither IRIS or any of its directors, officers, employees, agents, or
representatives nor any of its licensors (including, without limitation, the
Regents of the University of California, and its officers, employees, agents,
the Department of Energy, and its employees and agents,  the Software
Developers, the Software sponsors, nor any of their agents, officers and
employees (the “IRIS Indemnified Parties”) shall have any liability for, and you
shall defend, indemnify and hold each of the IRIS Indemnified Parties harmless
from and against, any claim, loss, demand, liability, obligation and expenses
(including reasonable attorneys’ fees) based upon or arising out of any loss,
injury or damage, including but not limited to, any personal injury or property
damage, arising out of, pertaining to, or resulting in any way from, the use or
of the Software by you and/or any of your directors, officers, employees,
representatives, agents or contractors.  Licensee will pay any and all costs,
including reasonable attorney’s fees, incurred by IRIS or any of the IRIS
Indemnified Parties enforcing this indemnification.

8.	EXPORT CONTROL LAWS

LICENSEE will comply with all applicable United States and foreign laws and
regulations concerning the transfer of Licensed Products and related technical
data, including but not limited to International Traffic in Arms Regulations
(ITAR) and Export Administration Regulations.  The Software is currently under a
Department of Commerce EAR99 level of export control and thus is not allowed to
be distributed to embargoed countries.

9.  COPYRIGHT MARKING You will affix to all copies of Software and their
containers that are made, used, or sold or otherwise distributed under this
Agreement: a)	the proper copyright notice in accordance with applicable
copyright marking laws; and b)	the following notice: "This work is based on a
pre-existing work created at the University of California, Lawrence Livermore
National Laboratory (UC LLNL) under contract No. W-7405-ENG-48 between the U.S.
Department of Energy and The Regents of the University of California for the
operation of UC LLNL. That pre-existing work was sponsored by an agency of the
United States Government. NEITHER THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT NOR THE
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA NOR ANY OF THEIR EMPLOYEES, MAKES ANY WARRANTY EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED, OR ASSUMES ANY LEGAL LIABILITY OR RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ACCURACY,
COMPLETENESS, OR USEFULNESS OF ANY INFORMATION, APPARATUS, PRODUCT, OR PROCESS
DISCLOSED IN THE PRE-EXISTING WORK, OR REPRESENTS THAT ITS USE WOULD NOT
INFRINGE PRIVATELY OWNED RIGHTS."


10.	TERMINATION:  This License Agreement may be terminated immediately by
IRIS upon breach of any provision of this License Agreement by you.  Upon any
termination of this License Agreement, you shall immediately discontinue use of
the Software, and IRIS may disable any and all user IDs and passwords provided
to you or to others on your behalf.  Either party may terminate this License
Agreement for convenience on thirty (30) days prior written notice.

11.	GOVERNING LAW; ATTORNEY’S FEES:  This License Agreement shall be governed
by and interpreted in accordance with the laws of the District of Columbia,
applicable to contracts entered into and to be wholly performed therein, without
given effect to conflict of laws principles thereunder.  You agree that any
legal or equitable action of whatever nature by or against IRIS arising out of
or related in any respect to this License Agreement shall be brought solely in
the courts located in the District of Columbia, except that in the event IRIS is
sued or joined by a third party in any other court or in any other forum in
respect of any manner which may give rise to a claim by IRIS hereunder, you
consent to the jurisdiction of such court or forum over any claim which may be
asserted by IRIS therein.  You or IRIS may enforce any judgment rendered by any
of the aforementioned courts, in any court of competent jurisdiction.  The
parties hereby consent to and waive any challenge or objection to personal
jurisdiction and venue of the above-mentioned courts, including any claim that
such action, suit or proceeding has been brought in an inconvenient forum, and
consent to service of legal process by any means consistent with applicable law.

1.	MISCELLANEOUS: This License Agreement constitutes the entire agreement
between IRIS and you with respect to the subject matter hereof, and supersedes
all prior oral or written understandings, communications or agreements not
specifically incorporated herein.  This License Agreement may not be modified 
except in writing duly signed by an authorized representative of IRIS and you. 
If any provision of this License Agreement is held to be unenforceable for any
reason, such provision shall be reformed only to the extent necessary to make it
enforceable, and such decision shall not affect the enforceability (i) of such
provision under other circumstances, or (ii) of the remaining provisions hereof
under all circumstances.  Headings shall not be considered in interpreting the
License Agreement.

BY ACCESSING THE SOFTWARE, YOU ACKNOWLEDGE THAT YOU HAVE READ THE TERMS OF THIS
LICENSE AGREEMENT AND AGREE TO BE BOUND BY ITS TERMS.

